---
layout: post
title: Automated (classical) planning
category: artifical-intelligence
tag: planning,ai
---
Automated planning is a very old branch of AI research. The system resolves
around creating a sequence of actions which can be executed to achieve a desired
goal.

## Components
A planning problem usually consists of a number of components:

* an initial state
* a goal state
* a set of actions (with their preconditions and effects)

### Initial state
The initial state describes the state of the world before we start our planning
process. This is usually expressed as a list of things which are known to be
true and sometimes things which are known to be false (see closed vs open world
  assumption).

### Goal state
The goal state describes the things which the planning system should aim to
bring about. This usually consists of a series of statements which must be true
in order for the planner to be considered done.

### actions
Actions are the things which the planner can perform in order to bring about
changes in the state of the world. These actions can have facts which must
be true in order for them be be applied (preconditions). They also usually
have a set of facts which become true or false after applying the actions
(effects).

## STRIPS
STRIPS was an planner from the 1970s. It's domain formalism has been adapted and
used as a basis for a range of other planning systems.

### state description
* A set of facts which are true (AT(A,agent), HAS(BANANAS),AT(A,box))

### Action definition
* preconditions
* add list
* remove list

## Planning Domain Description Language
In order to describe planning domains in a way which can be used by different
planners, a domain specific language called PDDL was developed. This language
has been extended for multiple purposes including multi-agent planning (ma-pddl)
and probablitstic planning (ppddl).
