---
layout: post
title: Boolean Algebra
category: programming
tag: logic,booleans
---
Boolean algebra is fairly fundimental to a lot of work in computer science. In
this article describe boolean logic and some of it's properties.

There is an algebra of logic, called boolean algebra. It was invented by
George Boole, an Irish mathematician.

## Operations
Boolean algebra is considered to have 3 primative operations. These are fairly
well known (espically if you've been coding). These are AND, OR and NOT.

Intrestingly, You can define OR and AND using the other one and NOT. This is
mostly of interest for electronics type people and mathematicians (see the
apendixes if you're interested in such things)[^1].

Using these primatives you can build up a range of other useful operations such
as XOR, NAND, EQUALITY and IMPLIES. There are 16 possible 2 argument operations.

## properties
### commutative
A operation is commuative if the order of the arguments arn't important. This is
the case for XOR, AND, equals and OR but is not the case for implies.

### linareraly seperable
If we were to imagine plotting one of our operators on an axis, we could draw
a line which can devide them into two groups (things which are true on one side
  and things which are false on the other).

If this can be done, we can call the function linareraly seperable. Most two
argument operators are linareraly seperable, XOR being the exception.

## Truth Tables
A way of represting logical functions.

### 2 Argument functions
| A | B | AND | OR | XOR | Implies | equilivence |
|---|---|--------| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **T** | **F** | F | T | T | F | F
| **T** | **T** | T | T | F | T | T
| **F** | **F** | F | T | T | T | T
| **F** | **T** | F | F | T | T | T

# Apendixes

## Building logical operations
* x AND y = NOT ( NOT x OR NOT y)
* x OR y = NOT ( NOT x AND NOT y)
* x IMPL y = NOT X OR Y
* x XOR y = (x OR y) AND NOT (x AND y)
* x == y = NOT (x XOR y)

[^1]: Please don't use this fact in your production code.
